# SBA-Loan-Analysis
Overview: The U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) was founded in 1953. Small businesses have been a primary source of job creation in the US. SBA assists these small businesses through a loan guarantee program which is designed to encourage banks to grant loans to small businesses. SBA reduces the risk for a bank by guaranteeing a portion of the loan. So, if in case a loan goes into default, SBA then covers the amount they guaranteed. There have been many success stories of start-ups receiving SBA loan guarantees and there have also been stories of small businesses and/or start-ups that have defaulted on their SBA-guaranteed loans. The rate of default on these loans has been a source of controversy for decades. Therefore, banks are still faced with difficulty if they should grant such a loan because of the high risk of default involved. One way to inform their decision-making is through analyzing relevant historical data such as the datasets and then classifying the loan into higher risk or lower risks to off the loan. Consequently, through this project, we would like to use the Data Wrangling Process for easy access to analyze and address how the real-world data affects the Loan Approvals/ Disbursements and the Fraud factors related to it. From this project we hope to accomplish how the Data wrangling can be used to analyse the operations of SBA. We’ll be addressing a few business questions to anaylse information for Loan Approval in various situations.
